https://discuss.python.org/t/why-im-leaving-discuss-python-org/58093/6

[quote="Tim Peters, post:3, topic:58093, username:tim.one"]
I think there’s some confusion over language here. Best I can tell, “soft moderation” is industry-standard language for gimmicks (whether automated or manual) that attach “warnings” to posts without actually removing then.
[/quote]

See, when I [replied in that thread](https://discuss.python.org/t/inclusive-communications-expectations-in-python-spaces/57950/7), I was under the impression that "soft moderation" meant replying to people (in the original thread) in a way that was meant to convey "you wrote something problematic; please fix it" without overtly saying so (and certainly not in an Official Moderator Voice).

So now I have to conclude that there's a *serious* issue with clear communication from the SC here. It's already bad enough that we weren't initially told (and technically are still only inferring, I think?) that there were already names up for consideration for delisting via this process. (Contra your apparent position in the original thread, this realization makes me *extremely anxious*. The *last* thing I want to hear from a governing body that's seeking the [power to pass judgement in secret](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Star_Chamber), replacing an actually auditable procedure because it would be too difficult to enact, is an *intimation that they see themselves as having "unfinished business"*.)

[quote="Tim Peters, post:5, topic:58093, username:tim.one"]
... I have a weird impression that naming names in any context is somehow frowned on here. So I’ll neither confirm nor deny. I’ll just say that the person I have in mind earned a relevant doctorate degree. If the shoe fits … leap to your own hasty conclusion :wink:.
[/quote]

... And yet you still use this emoji, in this environment of heightened caution. (Forgive me; I am not yet so brave.)
